foreign
[Music]
shortly before our wedding Alexa and I
sat down with Tara to talk about
marriage what commitment means to us and
the fear of losing a life partner this
was a sweet and vulnerable episode to
record and I really hope you enjoy
woohoo
[Music]
I feel nervous yay
I welcome your nervousness I love
nervousness
thank you
thank you yeah I look forward to hearing
your questions
the the Curiosity that's coming up first
for me is
I I have so many projections of your
relationship with Joe
and at this point it's really really
positive I know you pretty well now and
I love your relationship I really admire
it so there's a lot of curiosity there
to begin with but
the thing I'm noticing is I've always
had a lot of projections since since I
barely knew you so the question is
mm-hmm is like what is it like to be
playing the role of a person who really
helps others relate well
you both really help people change the
way that they
interact with all kinds of people but
especially the people that they really
care about
so then what is it like to be that role
pretty publicly together with your
partner who is also your business
partner what is it like to have that
much projection on your relationship
well it feels like there's a lot of
questions in there
yeah you're right
um I don't even know where to start
answering that give me a second because
I had like 40 thoughts run through my
head
um first of all I'll say to be doing it
publicly is incredibly vulnerable and
sometimes incredibly hard for me
and it is what we teach so then I have
to walk what we're teaching and remind
myself like I gotta I gotta walk my talk
so that part is hard
and there have been Retreats where Joe
and I have started haggling over what
we're going to do next very publicly in
front of participants and that's always
edgy but I'm always like nope I'm not
going to bring this to a back room we're
going to do this here
not all of it but parts of it here so
that we can figure this out together in
front of people and have them watch our
process that has hap you all probably
have seen that it can be messy it's hard
right I I feel like first of all I love
working with Joe I love working with Joe
which was a surprise of our marriage it
was not we went in having two very
different careers and at some point they
merged
and I'd always dreaded the idea of
working with a love partner I'd heard
horrible stories about it and yeah and
it's been I'd say it's been like the
greatest surprise of the this act of our
this portion of our marriage is how much
we love working together like we just
love working together we love creating
Retreats we love being in the room
together the last two Retreats we've
done we haven't always been in the room
together it's like wait I miss being in
the room with you
it's just been a surprise
um having the projections on us is I
mean it's part of being a facilitator is
dealing with the projections so I'd say
we're
accustomed to it
I always want to shed the golden Shadow
projections the golden projections those
positive ones because Joe and I we work
hard to keep our marriage alive it has
not always been easy we've had hard
years we our first years of marriage
were brutally hard
you know there's that first love and you
can kind of get Swept Away by the energy
of love and then you have to come
crashing down and learn how to I we had
to come crashing down and learn how to
like who are we without all of that
um
projected bestness on each other and you
know learn how to climb the mountain
together from reality from authenticity
and not just
emotion and love but reality
and so
the golden projections always feel
um
they don't if they don't feel like they
do honor to the work Joe and I have done
and they don't feel like they do honor
to the reality of marriage which is at
his work it's joyful it's playful it's
the most fulfilling self-work having
someone else reflect
you to yourself
and it's work
so I I the the golden projections break
my heart a little bit because I want to
say like okay yes it's amazing we're an
amazing couple and we freaking work hard
at it and we struggle and we fight and
some of you have seen our fights very
publicly like we you know we have to
tangle with
um different parts of our personality to
find that sweet balanced spot and we
live in that dance
hmm
it's funny when we use the word fight
like
what you guys what you're referring to
as far as anything I've seen that would
be referred to as a fight
is like
in much of my like experience of
relationships and what has been you know
modeled to many of us looks like just
baby smooth or maybe like a little bit
of like ripples here and there
yeah it's like oh
feels unseen and the other one is like
um
yeah you feel unseen
I also feel unseen and then like
you sit in it for a minute and then
something moves and it's not like
I've never seen you guys in like a big
like fight fight yeah anything I would
consider to be a fight yeah not to say
that it doesn't happen and not to say
that that would be a sign that it's not
a beautiful relationship uh it's just
it's just an interesting like
the different levels of like what we
could be talking about when we say the
word fight I think when I yeah it's a
really interesting fight Joe and I our
fights were big early right right after
marriage that first year or two we had
big fights we had to get that's when we
started therapy and really learning like
non-violent communication and how to
communicate and say oh when you did this
I felt like that's where a lot of our
work comes from all of those lessons
because neither of us had good role
models for fighting it was like Take You
Down
um
so right I imagine on the surface our
fights look very very subtle and sort of
calm they don't feel calm inside they
feel equally like ah ah you know there's
the there's a this is uncomfortableness
about them
as we have to you know whatever we're
we're haggling over they're like inner
haggles
yeah and I also notice a fluidity in it
unless less fleeing from it into
reactivity more just being like this is
the way that I'm feeling right now yes
that's exactly right we both have
I think have a practice of let's dive
into it we'll we'll go at it go do our
emotional work separately like I might
go hit the pillows and like ah
just you know hit the pillows or
steering wheel or move my anger and my
grief my fear and then we come together
it's like okay diving in and figuring
out what's the
what's the Nugget that wants to be seen
or the heart that wants to be
held
so I have another question around this
uh like how you guys have like you
started out thinking you wouldn't want
to work together and now you work
together and very smoothly
uh I've worked with past partners before
in my life it's been commonplace
sometimes it's worked really well
sometimes it's been codependent
sometimes it's been
just in pattern and I'm curious for you
how how did that Journey go with you and
Joe from
not wanting to work together to
recognizing you wanted that and doing it
from a place that
isn't codependence or just like we're
merging now now we're just the same
person we're doing the same thing of
course our careers are the same
in some sense what how did that happen
it's a great question and it almost
happens so smoothly that I can't tell
you how it happened you know when those
changes like we just
I don't even know I can't even remember
logically how it happened
um
give me a second to remember
it's interesting because in a way we
were always this is a I'm gonna
contradict what I said earlier in a way
from day one we were always doing quote
unquote the work together I very much
remember thinking I can marry this man
because he's as dedicated to learning
about himself and supporting his
self-development as I am and that was to
me the number one principle most
important thing I was looking for in a
life partner was someone who would do
the work with me so that was in our
marriage from day one before we even
agreed to get married we agreed to do a
10-day Meditation Retreat together and
be in therapy together like those were
and then travel through southeast Asia
for six months those were like three
um agreements we made to do together
before we even decided to get married so
that was
oh it was always there
we were always discussing
self-development we were always
discussing meditation and
um Awakening and therapy and
self-discovery and
that was just uh that was
that was the very found a very
Foundation of our marriage from day one
so we weren't doing it professionally
then for the first 20 years or however
long but it was always there which is I
think why the why I kind of remember
even remember when it became
professional because it was just always
in the field
there's something I wanted to say I
forgot
how is it not to be codependent and
mergy I would say we've had moments of
being codependent and mergy like that is
the journey is like learning when I'm
merging and like oh pull back back to
myself my roots my backbone what do I
want here
and
um so that it's not that it doesn't
happen it's just becoming aware of it
when it does happen
and the codependence piece once upon a
time I had a really negative connotation
of codependence I went to a women's
college like I'm never going to be
codependent and then oh my gosh I'm
being you know when I first became a mom
I very much felt codependent like oh I'm
just in service of Joe's career and all
I'm doing is taking care of the kids
and at some point I had to redefine
codependence and redefine what was
actually happening for me there was
finding my needs and speaking up for
them
and then there was tracking
inter or intradependence
which I would very much say Joe and I
are
intradependent we very much depend on
each other for different things and
support each other but it's
bi-directional Joe supports me I support
him
so it goes both ways whereas I think
codependence just goes one way and one
person's needs aren't getting taken care
of
yeah there was something else yeah I
don't know if that answers your question
Brett
yeah it does I see like the
codependents being one directional as
maybe one way it can go another way it
could just be if we're both
trying to get our own needs met and not
seeing how those needs are met then we
could just be in we could be at an equal
kind of dynamic of both feeling unmet
yep and so that makes me
that kind of ties back to a question
that I had moments ago that is
around you know both of you both of you
being dedicated to your self-development
both of us feel dedicated to our
self-development and
what what failure modes have you found
in that for example I just thought of
this idea of
anything that comes up in a relationship
might mean that we have to go do some
work about it and it might get a little
bit I don't know like
the most derogatory way to describe it
was like Naval gazing or self-indulgent
but also the another one could just be
that we're like
fixated on the path in a dogmatic way
rather than like really just deeply
living everything and I'm curious if you
have if you and Joe have ever found
yourself sort of fall into like a
self-development black hole together
because you both share that
derive that desire and perhaps some of
the same blind spots
I I can't think of one we've fallen in
together I can think of ones I have
personally fallen in my one of my
biggest learnings was After experiencing
sort of a heart opening was I was just
in love with everything and and so that
I could see the um
I could see what everything was coming
from or the care behind it and I um and
I could feel the love for it and from it
even if it was kind of Twisted and I
didn't have boundaries
so I had this huge heart opening without
access to my own boundaries which was a
a huge hole for me
with job and everybody else not having
boundaries you know those heart openings
your boundaries are there to allow the
heart opening not have the hard opening
so you don't need any boundaries
so that was like I would say that was a
good year or two of my life
having to find the the boundaries so
that I was included in the heart opening
it wasn't just for everybody else
um and that and that was definitely hard
in our marriage because certain things
had to change
and
and I had and Joe had to watch me really
struggle to find and hold not say them
but hold them that was the I could name
a boundary but holding it was a very
different action
so that was one kind of Pitfall in the
process for me
there was another one I thought of when
you first brought it up and I can't
remember what it is now
um navel gazing
oh the second pothole for me was sort of
when I first discovered projection work
and this happened right around the time
of that heart opening it without
boundaries
in the projection work I'd be like Oh
I'm projecting and then I assumed it was
my responsibility to take care of
everything
oh if I'm projecting that this person is
crossing my boundaries then I'm crossing
my own boundaries and that's about me
and I kind of could go into spin on the
projection work as opposed to like oh
and I still get my boundaries
like oh yeah like it is a it is about me
and I still get to name what I want I
still get to say I don't want that and I
can't be around you if this and I can't
be around that person if XYZ or I'm
gonna go take care of myself this way
yeah so those were my two biggest
potholes and they very much happened in
relationship in my marriage so
yeah
maybe a different flavor of the same
question is just like what is it like to
be
um
in a marriage with the person I assume
is your primary sort of like I want to
say spiritual Playmate but maybe you
know self-development
partner
so yes he is primary but I have an
entire community of people who are I
would consider my spiritual Sangha and
um self-development saying huh I have my
women's group my dear women friends
I was just with friends from college
when I let when when we last talked
Brett and I very much consider them part
of my Sangha
so it's amazing to have Joe as my
principal partner the person I spend
probably the most time with the person I
dream next to
um share that Journey but he is not the
only one which I think is part of our
sanity I have a very big community of a
deep not necessarily huge but a deep
community of people who also are my
spiritual and self-discovery singha
and I couldn't be partnered with someone
who wasn't like I you know yeah I
couldn't they're two of the things I
care about aside from like my kids and
being a parent they're two of the
spirituality and self-development are
two of the the things that I feel like
oh this is what I was put here to do
whatever that means right this is like
my soul's Journey so I would have to
have a partner who met me
that way I don't think I I couldn't not
that really resonates for me
um I was gonna say I think a lot of what
I'm speaking to speaks to your two
relationship too right like you have
those same shared it's like a shared
like oh this is the ocean we want to
sail in
yeah that really resonates if and it
feels really good to me to be on that
journey together with Brett and I guess
I do have this
feeling
it's like a little bit of a feeling of
like um
huh can't quite find the right metaphor
it's sort of like oh and this is this is
clearly it because I am
all the way up this
uh roller coaster with you and it feels
like
you know nothing could compare to this
this is it this is the thing and also
that's kind of scary
feels like all my eggs are in this
basket mm-hmm
yeah
I could dive down a rabbit hole on that
fear I'm not sure if that's what we're
here but if you were yes
that's exactly what we're here can you
hang out with the fear Alexa
because it is true right this is
yeah and just hang out with the app just
breathe and
hang out with it
I noticed there's a lot of sadness
immediately
yeah
hang out with that and just
be with it and let your breath move
through it
what was that
yeah I feel like I just dropped down
deeper
great so letting yourself be in that
down deeper
and just hang out nowhere to go just
hanging with it
what's that
yeah there's this
[Music]
um
bounciness
here which is
um
I think kind of just a general like
huh
it's pretty hard to put words to there's
a lot of
feeling of grief
um it reminds me of course of losing
Brian my former partner who died
and in general of all of the uh
the mortality that's that's really going
on around us right now
and a feeling of like
on the one hand
that the Deep knowledge that life can be
really hard
helps me
kind of
bear the fear that it will be hard in
that way again because
yeah it it probably will and there's no
time to waste
you know there's no reason to try to
hold that
Bay
um
like after Brian died I wasn't like oh I
wasted all this time with somebody who
died on me it was more like oh every
moment when I could have showed him more
love I wish I had
and what's that feeling
um
there's a wanting to pour myself out
so just curious if you look at Brett
what does that feeling want to say to
him
or if anything
uh I want you to want to be here with me
as much as I want to be here with you
[Music]
I do
I do I think we just found some of your
vows
and so having named that how is that
feeling in your system you talked about
the fear what having gone down to those
depths and named that to Brett what
happens what's going on with the fear if
anything
huh
yeah it's not currently feeling like
fear it feels like aliveness and kind of
electricity
yeah great can you let your whole body
just have that aliveness and electricity
yeah yeah exactly yeah right
you all can't see her but she's
positively glowing
[Laughter]
yeah me too
yeah so beautiful
what comes up for me in that process was
like when I when I heard her and this is
also true like other times she said this
where she feels like she has all her
eggs in one basket there's like a
constriction or a fear in me
and
like tracing that back to
you know for her it traces back to
having lost a partner for me it traces
back to being
in
in an extreme sports world where people
were frequently losing partners
and you know at the time I was in I was
in a long-term relationship and
we
like we both felt that like wow we are
we are each other's person there's
nobody that gets us anything like each
other and we're traveling all the time
we don't even have like stable friends
other than those that we see while we're
traveling and jumping
and so we felt this like deep eggs in
one basket thing and that I think is
part of the Catalyst that had US Open up
our relationship and explore polyamory
was
this like I want there to be somebody
else that you feel connected to in case
I Leave You
wow
wow and we we wanted that for each other
and so there's there's something very
visceral that comes up for me when I
hear Alexa feel like she has all her
eggs in one basket and I wanted like my
initial kind of
I guess my initial response was to be
like no no that's not true you got eggs
everywhere there's people who love you
you got like this that yeah and also
there's a there's the reality of the way
that that feels for her and there's the
reality of the way that there's a way
that it's true there's a way that's
fully true and there's also the way that
it's not but like I
in witnessing this process I feel more
capable of being there in the way that
it is fully true and there's
there's grief in that
like grief in that it's not just a punch
potentiality it's actually a reality
that one of us is going to lose the
other unless we both die at the same
time which is gonna feel
for all intents and purposes like all
eggs in one basket
yeah despite the sport support
structures we have
that is what makes love so etchy right
it is finite our time here
is finite
that's the amazing cup to me that is the
um what you just named is like yeah and
I feel the same way when I look at Alexa
right now people can't see her but her
eyes are tearing up it's just so
beautiful it's that finite
finite preciousness of love in the heart
right that the heart has capacity for
that knowing that there's an end knowing
there's an end line to me that's just
like
truly amazing that as humans we do that
again and again and our hearts can and
want to do that
and
Brett what I would invite you to do is
be with the whatever the emotion when
when Alexa says oh all my eggs in one
basket
you can see the truth not truth but be
with the what's the emotion that comes
up for you
so you're staying with yours you know
being with her words but also staying
with yourself yeah yeah initially it's
like it's a fear of being responsible
for her Devastation and heartbreak
in in the event that
that I depart
which is very clearly some mommy stuff
too uh yeah
and can you hang out with the fear we'll
just do the same thing just be with it
and see how it wants to move or be seen
or what it wants to do
so you're just following it
hanging out with it yeah inside there
there's the fear of
there's the fear of being loved
as I am
inclusive of my
some form of like not knowing
my risk tolerance
my naivete my not being able to
guarantee
any form of safety
uh yeah can you
stay hanging out with that let your
heart and head hang with that fear
and underneath that there's a grief of
there's a grief underneath feeling like
all of that has ever been my
responsibility
or feeling
yeah feeling penned into my own cage of
that I need to be
some sort of like
safe stable predictable alive
for someone else
yeah and staying with that grief that I
need to be safe stable Dependable for
someone else can you stay with that and
just see how if at all it wants to move
so you're letting it move through the
system if it wants to
yeah it was like a slight shaking it
might be more fear
yeah and if your body wants to have that
shake give it this give it what it you
know let it sequence
[Music]
exactly and letting yourself Breathe
Right Through It
yeah it feels like there's like the
there's a fear of being
alone that I project
onto her like I project that she
wouldn't be able to handle losing me
if when when she speaks of the eggs in
one basket thing when in reality I feel
like
I wouldn't be able to handle it
or there's like the fear of yeah
and just turned towards her and share
from it let's go make contact with and
see how it wants to what it wants to
share with her
what comes up is sort of strange but
it's like a an apology for
any way that I've tried to
create safety
in any way that
suppresses
myself or us
that's not strange
so beautiful I wish everyone could see
what I'm seeing so beautiful the two of
you which is breaking my brain a little
bit it's like
like I'm seeing I'm seeing how much I've
actually really
bought into that
like
not that I need to but just like feeling
like I really really want to create
safety
yeah
yep
and there's been some obligation in it
which is why there's been some like some
tension around that
you said the whole Mama piece and yeah
there's still a part of me that wants to
go base jumping
thinks about it at some point every day
and then there's a part of me that's
like oh it's been like several years now
I'm not current I haven't
done it recently it would be I I feel
confident that I could go do it safely
but also Alexa wouldn't have the context
that my body has to feel the confident
with me
and I'd be putting her through something
um if I did
and then there's both sides of that that
have felt in tension like the tension of
I don't need to be responsible for
someone's emotions about my safety and
then the other one of I am responsible
for
the consequences of my
safety or lack of safety or
yeah that's beautifully said too when we
when we haven't gone down to the bottom
of it with that apology I'm sorry that
you just said to her so beautifully then
we can only ping pong between oh I'm
responsible and [__] responsibility
right we can only kind of ping pong
between the two yeah opposed
right we're just kind of go back and
forth reacting yeah yeah
so there's an irony here if something
funny right before we started recording
I got a text from my sister where she's
like I want to skydive with you sometime
[Laughter]
and I would absolutely love that
and as the part of me it's like ah what
if what if something happens to her I've
had that happen like for friends who've
like lost their sister around the
Skydive and you know it's just like
there's all these
Back stories that just like well that
could be what happens now uh
and also there's just this like
there's still something very alive in me
that have been a little bit afraid of
for the past number of years of like
there's something alive in me that
still wants to go out and make take the
risk and be like fully out there and
exposed and then there's a part of me
that's like oh I don't need this story
that I need to be fully out there and
exposed to fully live
which is true I don't need that story
but there's still something in there
that wants it and that scares me a
little bit as as we go into this you
know marriage and we've got our eggs in
the basket and
and you're doing a podcast where you
were just totally fully exposed in front
of him
right right
well that's different like great slay my
ego that's fine like my the body body
that's fine but
it feels less fine
if it is like the consequences it has
for
others and that's
more identity I can see there being my
identity wrapped up in others there
am I taking responsibility for them
yeah I do want to say something
yeah
you
have evidence
that I can survive the death of a
partner
I do
I do and I just also have so much
evidence of how much
that sucked yeah it
is no doubt
and also there's so much evidence of
like how
much that is done for you in this
strange way there's there's this way
that I feel like part of what has had us
both attracted to each other so deeply
and also both of us be so
committed to
to self-exploration and
self-understanding is how
we've each lost a lot
for me it was friends and a lot of
acquaintances and
people more
on the like Inner Circle but not a
partner and then in the periphery of my
life just being regularly happening over
the course of decades and for you you
had one
particularly deep loss of a partner and
we've both been on Journeys with
things like survivor's guilts and
wondering what we could have done
differently if only we'd been seeing
more clearly and
picking up the pieces and going through
the grieving process and so I feel like
there's
I benefit a lot from the fact that you
have lost a partner and gone through
that and yes I'm also very scared of
having you go through that again on my
account
which is
yeah there's identity there and
not wanting to be the bad guy
so we could I don't want a rabbit hole
but a question that I want to give you
for later is like what would make you
dying be the bad guy
hmm
yeah what comes up as a dream that I had
some a couple years ago I just like kind
of had this really really intense dream
where I just
in this dream I was I basically died in
some various like some dream way that
was actually a combination of a number
of different ways
and like the question came up in me like
what if your death was a gift
like what if you saw it that way and I
like it rippled through my life as
though like all the people who are
grieving and I could see the gift in it
and the
and it was like a really powerful dream
and
there's a way that I'm like perhaps
scared of letting that
Insight Ripple all the way through
because it's like well if I really see
it as a gift that's one way of seeing it
but if I really see it that way just
fully if I let that really happen
then
what will that mean
will that make me more likely to
to leave everybody
and uh
in a way that
in that frame would be a gift perhaps
even the more tragic the more of a gift
but like I also don't want to be
fetishizing that so that's what I think
the fear is if there's like if I really
let that all the way in will I just
fetishize my own death or something uh
and so that maybe there's a wisdom in
that
concern and there's also a a way that it
prevents the full integration of
fully letting myself see the way that it
could be a gift if I were to leave Alexa
and
it doesn't mean that I'm going to be
more likely to do that in fact it might
actually
be more likely that I stay safe because
I'm letting myself see all the ways that
that could happen
I'm not afraid of them yeah what I hear
is like the fear is if if we let the
fear fully through in then there's more
of a chance of it creating itself
I remember this with um birthing that I
had a midwife teach me like oh no you
have to actually acknowledge all your
fears that you're going into and
birthing and I was like no no if I
acknowledge them then they're more
likely to come true she was like no in
the not acknowledging them is how
they're likely to come true that's the
golden algorithm right and acknowledging
them and feeling through the fear
is how you
um you've sort of not ensure that they
don't happen but you
um prop yourself up you like
I forget exactly how she phrased it so
that's what I hear you saying when you
say this yeah
yeah my phrasing would be that you
process it you process that data so that
it is included in your right so then
you're not acting out on it
and I'm curious what your heart says
about it not the mind I see the mind
really but what's your heart say
oh
[Music]
this might be my mind interpreting the
heart but it says
like Alexa chose this at me
it's not
like this
this aspect of myself that I have this
feeling that I
that I wrestle with or work through
this particular flavor of feeling
is not an inconvenience to Alexa and
actually is something that she's
looking for
and so I'm feeling that there's a lot of
shame that falls away
restriction that releases
and of course I want to check with Alexa
that that feels at all true for her but
yeah
beautiful
but there's something in me that moves
when I
was like a heart opening softening
even look like Alexa just softened next
to you
[Music]
and yeah I want to own that it doesn't
feel like I chose this part of you like
this doesn't feel like the thing that
I'm attracted to I do feel like I'm
saying yes to all of you
it's part one
of this answer and part two is
and
uh I have
a
partiality towards
you not having yeah like the feeling of
obligation
to stick around for me
or like the resentment that's in there
and the as Tara said the sort of like
ping-ponging or swinging back and forth
yeah and part three is I don't really
know
what makes it that I'm so in love with
you
on some level
you know
that I chose you
is evidence that I
that I absolutely am choosing this
even if I'm citing it also
yeah truly
deeply feel
you're choosing this
is not a shred of me that doubts that
but don't leave me or else I'm sad and
it'll be your fault
back to obligation Brett come on don't
worry I'll take care of your feelings
everything will be okay okay great I'll
make sure that your feelings are safe
doesn't that feel so much better
oh
oh it's so beautiful
really beautiful work
[Music]
so we got any other marriage advice
my advice is Cuddle you've just did
really deep beautiful work together can
you go cuddle and snuggle
whisper and giggle together
yeah yeah
my marriage advice integrated
oh that's really good advice yeah
especially for when your partner is your
primary spiritual playmate yeah the
integration is key and integrating
together is really fun
yeah
there's a twinkle in your eye when you
said that what kind of integration are
you talking about whatever comes to mind
no not whatever comes
snuggles cuddles and whatever else
yes all of the above beautiful
integration
[Music]
such a pleasure I love you so much quite
Mutual I love you so much
too I love that I'll get to watch your
marriage
ah
and I've already watched so much of your
partnership like I feel so blessed
even when I didn't know you were a
couple
[Music]
yeah
thank you Tara a pleasure a true honor
all right thanks again for listening if
you're feeling the love reach out and
let us know how this episode touched you
you can find us on Twitter at Art of a
comp or through art of
accomplishment.com from our hearts to
yours see you next time
[Music]
thank you